---
layout: post
title: flavours
cover: null.png
date:   2018-10-19 21:57:00
categories: posts
---

## On re-evaluation and choice

What follows is a collection of out-of-sequence, underdeveloped thoughts about how we update and re-evaluate our approaches to moving through life and what we're looking for.


Since humans achieved comfort and survivability through easy calories and technology, the time required to take care of basic needs has dwindled. This has left time to think, to invent, to contemplate. How do we decide how to spend our time, now that staying alive is so easy?


The first point of view **(1.0)** is that we are constantly planning and striving for the next thing, that is, the thing that will "scratch the itch", until we get there and attain some sort of steady-state happiness or self-actualisation. A kind of focus on getting to some destination that can make us happy.

I have a few problems with this. The first problem **(1.1)** is that there's no signal to let you know that you've made it as far as you can go; there's no optimal stopping theory that you can put to use to tell you when to stop looking for meaning in any activity. So when do you get to stop searching? Are you just supposed to keep going and looking for new stuff? At what point have you earned the right to throw in the towel?

The second point **(1.2)** is that it is costly to search in the first place - we spend a lot of energy trying to best ourselves. Thirdly, **(1.3)** the itch may never be fully scratched (and so why bother trying to do anything at all?). And fourthly **(1.4)**, our ability to measure is limited to what we can perceive anyway, so we're probably measuring the wrong thing and therefore aiming in the wrong direction when we're trying to travel to 'the next thing'. 

The second point of view **(2.0)** is that we should coast along and enjoy each moment as it comes. 

I like this one more, but I also have problems with it. **(2.1)**, it would be wrong to assume that people drift through life without considering what they want in the future and that they don't plan for it in some capacity. No one is capable of living in the moment to the extent that they don't possibly know what they will have for breakfast tomorrow. Surely.

**(2.2)**, surviving in any social system requires that you plan ahead - unless you are completely helpless by choice. If you have no money, you cannto buy food and therefore you do not eat. So, people must plan at some basic level plan ahead.

[]
We might realise that out occupation doesn't line up with what we expected, or that our moral compass, our conviction, has shifted in a way that would make 'old you' a tad salty. Realising this is a valuable chance to objectively re-evaluate. Is our time on earth well-spent? Is it represented in a way that would make us 'proud', objectively, from today's standpoint? How much energy are you willing to spend to change if you decide that you need to? How much do you need to change to be the version of yourself that you think you could or should be?


[]
We feel 'proud' of ourselves  is hindered by preconceptions we formed in the past that carry forward as memories and ingrained thought processes to form our present-day mode of thinking. However, what really matters is what we come up with when we perform an objective re-evaluation of what we think our current circumstances mean to us.

