---
layout: post
title: flavours
cover: null.png
date:   2018-10-19 21:57:00
categories: posts
---

## On re-evaluation and choice

What follows is a collection of out-of-sequence, underdeveloped thoughts reinforcing the need to update and re-evaluate how we map our world.


Since humans achieved comfort and survivability through easy calories and technology (read: primitive tools++), the time required to take care of basic needs has dwindled. This has left time to think, to invent, to contemplate. How do we decide how to spend our time, now that staying alive is so easy?


The first point of view (1.0) is that we should constantly be striving for the next thing, that is, the thing that could "scratch the itch", until we get there and attain some sort of steady-state happiness or self-actualisation. 

I have a few problems with this. The first problem (1.1) is that there's no signal to let you know that you've made it as far as you can go; there's no optimal stopping theory that you can put to use to tell you when to stop looking for meaning in any activity. Secondly (1.2) that it is costly (energetically an emotionally), and thirdly (1.3) that the itch may never be fully scratched (and so why bother deviating from the status quo). Fourthly (1.4), our ability to measure our own satisfaction with any circumstanc is probably limited anyway, so no matter what we think, we have imperfect information. 

"What do you want to be when you grow up?" is a question posed to children, but it should really be asked to everyone.

The second point of view (2.0) is that we should coast along and enjoy each moment as it comes. 

It would be wrong to assume that people drift through life without considering what they want.

Routinely in our lives, we should try and decide what we want to live for. 

One form this introspection takes is periodic self-assessment, which is a way of keeping it real and making sure our current cirumstances aren't too out of step with what we think we should be doing.

This may not always produce the results that we hope for. We might realise that out occupation doesn't line up with what we expected, or that our moral compass, our conviction, has shifted in a way that would make 'old you' a tad salty. Realising this is a valuable chance to objectively re-evaluate. Is our time on earth well-spent? Is it represented in a way that would make us 'proud', objectively, from today's standpoint? How much energy are you willing to spend to change if you decide that you need to? How much do you need to change to be the version of yourself that you think you could or should be?

We feel 'proud' of ourselves  is hindered by preconceptions we formed in the past that carry forward as memories and ingrained thought processes to form our present-day mode of thinking. However, what really matters is what we come up with when we perform an objective re-evaluation of what we think our current circumstances mean to us.

TBC